# Configuration Reference

The **`nmk-proto`** plugin handles the configuration items listed in this page.

All of them are initiliazed with convenient default values, so that you don't need to setup them for a default working behavior. You can anyway override them in your project if you need to fine tune the plugin behavior. [Some items](extend.md) are specifically designed to be extended by **`nmk`** projects and plugins.

## Generic items

(protoFolder)=
### **`protoFolder`** -- Folder for input proto files

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | ${PROJECTDIR}/protos

This is the path where input proto files are located.

(protoInputFiles)=
### **`protoInputFiles`** -- List of input proto files

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.files.ProtoFilesFinder`

Dynamically lists input proto files found in {ref}`${protoFolder}<protoFolder>`.

(protoAllInputSubDirs)=
### **`protoAllInputSubDirs`** -- List of input proto sub-folders

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.files.ProtoAllSubDirsFinder`

Dynamically lists all sub-folders {ref}`${protoFolder}<protoFolder>` (exactly one per proto file, in same order than {ref}`${protoInputFiles}<protoInputFiles>`).

(protoUniqueInputSubDirs)=
### **`protoUniqueInputSubDirs`** -- Set of input proto sub-folders

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.files.ProtoUniqueSubDirsFinder`

Dynamically lists all sub-folders {ref}`${protoFolder}<protoFolder>` (no duplicates).

(protoDeps)=
### **`protoDeps`** -- Extra proto paths for code generation

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | [ {ref}`${protoPythonNmkRoot}<protoPythonNmkRoot>` ]

List of extra paths to be specified to protoc when generating code.

(protoPathOptions)=
### **`protoPathOptions`** -- Path options list for protoc

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.files.ProtoPathOptionsBuilder`

List of protoc path options, derived from {ref}`${protoDeps}<protoDeps>`

(protoDisableCheck)=
### **`protoDisableCheck`** -- Disable generated code checks

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| bool | False

Is set to true, disable all generated code check tasks (see {ref}`proto.check.py<proto.check.py>` task).

## Python items

(pythonGeneratedSrcFiles)=
### **`pythonGeneratedSrcFiles`** -- Generated python files list

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.python.OutputPythonFilesFinder`

List of generated python files (from input proto files).

(protoPythonCopiedFiles)=
### **`protoPythonCopiedFiles`** -- Copied proto files list

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.python.OutputProtoFilesFinder`

List of copied proto files in python module source directory (in order to be bundled in generated python wheel).

(protoPythonSrcFolders)=
### **`protoPythonSrcFolders`** -- Generated python modules folders list

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.python.OutputFoldersFinder`

List of generated python module folders in source directory.

(protoPythonSrcFoldersWildcard)=
### **`protoPythonSrcFoldersWildcard`** -- Generated python modules wildcard list

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| List[str]  | Generated by {py:class}`nmk_proto.python.OutputFoldersFinderWithWildcard`

Same list than {ref}`${protoPythonSrcFolders}<protoPythonSrcFolders>`, with a `/*` wildcard appended to each item.

(protoPythonGeneratedInitTemplate)=
### **`protoPythonGeneratedInitTemplate`** -- Path to init file template

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | ${BASEDIR}/templates/init.py.jinja

This is the path to the template used to generate `__init__.py` files in generated python modules.

(protoPythonNmkRoot)=
### **`protoPythonNmkRoot`** -- Link to venv root for proto files references

| Type | Default value |
|-     |-
| str  | ${PROJECTDIR_NMK}/protos

This is the path of the symbolic link to project venv, used for references to proto files provided by venv-installed packages.
